NY Pizza Dough.md, before:

# New York Style Dough

This recipe is my own adaptation of [Kenji's Pizza Dough](https://www.seriouseats.com/recipes/2010/10/new-york-style-pizza.html) with what I've learned from trial and error.

### Proportions

| Ingredient  | Size |
| ----------- | ---- |
| Bread Flour | 640g |
| Olive Oil | 40g |
| Yeast | 10g |
| Kosher Salt | 10g |
| Sugar | 15g |
| Luke Warm Water | 425g |

## Option 1 - Knead
### Mix a da' Pizza
Combine flour, salt, yeast in a bowl and wisk together until homogenous. Add olive oil and water and mix with hands until shaggy, sticky dough is formed.

### Knead a da' Pizza
Turn out dough onto the table and knead. I like to use a bench scraper because the dough is typically quite sticky. Try to resist adding more flour to the mix, unless the dough feels very wet. Knead for a while, and you will feel the dough become less sticky, although it will never become not sticky. You are done kneading once the dough is relatively smooth about 10-15 mins. I can never get mine to pass a full window pane test because I usually get impatient at this point, but it gets close enough. 

## Option 2 - Food Processor (Preferred)
Combine flour, salt, yeast in a bowl of a food processor and give it a quick spin to get homogenous. I use a dough blade, but I dont think it matters. Add olive oil and water and run the food processor for ~4 mins until its a smooth ball. It will be higher hydration than the above method since you aren't adding any extra flour, but I think the dough gets a lot crispier this way.

## After Kneading...
### Cold Ferment a da' Pizza
Oil your hands and lightly oil 4 deli containers/empty yogurt containers/tupperware. Divide the dough by weight into 3 parts. It should be ~360g per container, but do the math to be sure. Form each into a ball and place seam side down in the container. Put the lid on each container and place in the fridge for __at least 24 hrs__. I prefer 2-3 days in the fridge.

After the cold ferment, we're looking for a good long strands of gluten that almost look snotty.
![https://i.imgur.com/C2nYRQD.jpg](https://i.imgur.com/C2nYRQD.jpg)


### Prepare a da' Pizza
Pull the dough out no more than 3 hours and no less than 1 hour before you want to make pizza. I usually preheat the oven when I pull the dough out to as hot as it goes. This gives the oven and pizza stone enough time to get really hot. Pull the dough out of each container and reform into a ball in your hands. 

![https://i.imgur.com/ld6wRlo.jpg](https://i.imgur.com/ld6wRlo.jpg)


Place each ball seam side down into a __lightly__ oiled cereal bowl and let come up to temperature. I typically preheat the oven with the oven stone about an hour before too to help the stone get warm and it warms the dough up.

### Form a da' Pizza
Put a light but even coating of flour on the kitchen table and peel and a light sprinkling on the top of the dough while it's in the bowl. Gently pull the dough ball out of the bowl, placing seam side up on the floured surface. Use your fingers to gently press the dough into a circle, about 8 inches in diameter and a half inch thick, adding more flour if any sticking occurs. 

Flour the front and back of your hands and pick the dough up and use two fists on the bottom of the dough to stretch it out as evenly as possible. Get it as thin as you can without breaking through. Add extra flour if needed on the peel and put dough on the pizza peel.

Be liberal with the flour or your pizza will stick and you will have a malformed pizza and lose a lot of the oven heat while you struggle to get it off the peel onto the stone. You can also make it on parchment paper, but I think it comes at the sacrifice of a better crust.

### Cook a da' Pizza
Put toppings on the pizza and shake it onto the preheated pizza stone. Rotate if necessary and cook until the crust has a medium dark brown color on it. Look for some dark brown spots on the cheese or bubbles. Be quick with the peel and slide it under the pizza. 

Let cool or don't but enjoy!

![https://i.imgur.com/rJfbsPt.jpg](https://i.imgur.com/rJfbsPt.jpg)

Commit message:

Pizza Party
Pizza party pizza edits. Don't forget sugar!

NY Pizza Dough.md, after:

# New York Style Dough

This recipe is my own adaptation of [Kenji's Pizza Dough](https://www.seriouseats.com/recipes/2010/10/new-york-style-pizza.html) with what I've learned from trial and error.

### Proportions

| Ingredient  | Size |
| ----------- | ---- |
| Bread Flour | 640g |
| Olive Oil | 40g |
| Yeast | 10g |
| Kosher Salt | 10g |
| Sugar | 15g |
| Luke Warm Water | 425g |

## Option 1 - Knead
### Mix a da' Pizza
Combine flour, salt, sugar, yeast in a bowl and wisk together until homogenous. Add olive oil and water and mix with hands until shaggy, sticky dough is formed.

### Knead a da' Pizza
Turn out dough onto the table and knead. I like to use a bench scraper because the dough is typically quite sticky. Try to resist adding more flour to the mix, unless the dough feels very wet. Knead for a while, and you will feel the dough become less sticky, although it will never become not sticky. You are done kneading once the dough is relatively smooth about 10-15 mins. I can never get mine to pass a full window pane test because I usually get impatient at this point, but it gets close enough. 

## Option 2 - Food Processor (Preferred)
Combine flour, salt, sugar, yeast in a bowl of a food processor and give it a quick spin to get homogenous. I use a dough blade, but I dont think it matters. Add olive oil and water and run the food processor for ~4 mins until its a smooth ball. It will be higher hydration than the above method since you aren't adding any extra flour, but I think the dough gets a lot crispier this way.

## After Kneading...
### Cold Ferment a da' Pizza
Oil your hands and lightly oil 3 or 4 deli containers/empty yogurt containers/tupperware. Divide the dough by weight into 3 parts for 14" pizzas. It should be ~380g per container, but do the math to be sure. For a slightly smaller personal pizza, divide into 4 parts at ~285g each. Form each into a ball and place seam side down in the container. Put the lid on each container and place in the fridge for __at least 24 hrs__. I prefer 2-3 days in the fridge.

After the cold ferment, we're looking for a good long strands of gluten that almost look snotty.
![https://i.imgur.com/C2nYRQD.jpg](https://i.imgur.com/C2nYRQD.jpg)


### Prepare a da' Pizza
Pull the dough out no more than 3 hours and no less than 1 hour before you want to make pizza. I usually preheat the oven when I pull the dough out to as hot as it goes. This gives the oven and pizza stone enough time to get really hot. Pull the dough out of each container and reform into a ball in your hands. 

![https://i.imgur.com/ld6wRlo.jpg](https://i.imgur.com/ld6wRlo.jpg)


Place each ball seam side down into a __lightly__ oiled cereal bowl and let come up to temperature. I typically preheat the oven with the oven stone about an hour before too to help the stone get warm and it warms the dough up.

### Form a da' Pizza
Put a light but even coating of flour on the kitchen table and peel and a light sprinkling on the top of the dough while it's in the bowl. Gently pull the dough ball out of the bowl, placing seam side up on the floured surface. Use your fingers to gently press the dough into a circle, about 8 inches in diameter and a half inch thick, adding more flour if any sticking occurs. 

Flour the front and back of your hands and pick the dough up and use two fists on the bottom of the dough to stretch it out as evenly as possible. Get it as thin as you can without breaking through. Add extra flour if needed on the peel and put dough on the pizza peel.

Be liberal with the flour or your pizza will stick and you will have a malformed pizza and lose a lot of the oven heat while you struggle to get it off the peel onto the stone. You can also make it on parchment paper, but I think it comes at the sacrifice of a better crust.

### Cook a da' Pizza
Put toppings on the pizza and shake it onto the preheated pizza stone. Rotate if necessary and cook until the crust has a medium dark brown color on it. Look for some dark brown spots on the cheese or bubbles. Be quick with the peel and slide it under the pizza. 

Let cool or don't but enjoy!

![https://i.imgur.com/rJfbsPt.jpg](https://i.imgur.com/rJfbsPt.jpg)
